To say that social media is always
changing would be the understatement of
the century. The algorithms are
literally changing on a daily basis. And
that's not hyperbole. That's directly
from the head of Instagram. And keeping
up with these changes is how we keep our
business relevant, how we continue to
grow as a content creator, and how we
make sure that we are posting the right
things at the right time with the right
hashtags. But the unfortunate reality is
that most of the time we're playing
catch-up. We're hearing about an
announcement and then we're adjusting
our strategy. We're hearing rumors that
Instagram is testing something and so we
make a change. A new feature is
announced on YouTube and then we adapt.
And a big part of my job is keeping you
up to date, letting you know about these
algorithm changes and letting you know
about the strategies and adjustments
that you should make moving forward with
your social media marketing. And so
that's why if you haven't already,
definitely click that subscribe button.
But I think it can also be very helpful
to give you my predictions for 2026. And
so in today's episode, I'm going to be
sharing with you my eight major social
media predictions for 2026. And of
course, while I can't guarantee that
these predictions are going to come
true, I do have a track record of being
pretty accurate most of the time with my
Instagram predictions. And I do have
inside intel from Meta and Instagram
staff. And I do have a full-time
researcher on my team who literally has
a PhD in strategic communications with
an emphasis on Instagram, which is a
mouthful, but basically she's a doctor
of Instagram. And she's constantly
researching things, running tests,
collecting case studies, and keeping me
up to know with what Instagram is
testing because oftentimes Instagram and
YouTube and Tik Tok will test features
to a small group of people before making
them available to the general
population. And if you can be in the
know about those adjustments and those
new features before they're officially
released, you can adjust your strategy
so that you stay out ahead of the game
rather than constantly having to play
catch-up. My first prediction is also
the most obvious prediction that I'm
going to make, and that is that AI
content is going to become
indistinguishable from real content. I
would personally be willing to bet a lot
of money that you have already been
tricked by an AI video. Maybe you've
realized it, but also maybe you've been
duped by an AI video and you're sitting
here thinking, "There's no chance. I
haven't fallen for any AI." There isn't
a single video that I've seen that I
thought was real and is actually AI
made. I know that personally, I was
thinking this until the very end of
October 2025 when I saw a video on my
Tik Tok page. I didn't look at it for
very long. like I only watched it for a
couple of seconds and then I scrolled
and then a few days later I saw another
video breaking down how that video that
I originally watched was actually AI and
how it had fooled so many people. And
when I watched the analysis I was like,
"Oh yeah, this is obvious." But for the
first couple seconds that I watched the
original video before I scrolled, I
didn't realize I didn't clock that it
was AI. And so my guess is that you have
had a similar experience. And I hope I'm
not the person who has to call you out
right now and show you an AI video that
you thought was real, but I will play a
couple examples right now of content
that is very realistic looking, very
hard to tell that it was AI generated to
the point where it really makes you
question what is real and what is fake.
One of the most stark examples of the
progression of AI generated video is the
Will Smith eating spaghetti AI video.
This video that I'm about to play for
you was the kind of original example of
AI video isn't going to take our jobs.
Here's it trying to make a video of Will
Smith eating spaghetti. And about a year
later, here's what AI video looks like
now.
>> Higsfield cooked with this.
Now, I don't want to just leave this
first prediction here because I think
most of us assume that AI video is going
to become indistinguishable from nonAI
video in the coming months. So, I want
to take this prediction a step further
and talk about the implications of that
and how I think we as business owners
and content creators are going to have
to adapt or change and how I think the
consumers or our audience is going to
adapt as well. Number one, I think that
the easier something is to generate with
AI, the less trusting people are going
to be of said content. For example, I
recently saw a surrealist photographer
post on threads about how they posted
the exact same image about two years ago
and then they posted it recently and
recently it absolutely flopped. They had
posted it numerous times in the past and
every time they had posted it before
people were blown away. They thought it
was the most crazy cool surrealist. How
did he do that? How did he take that
picture? How did he edit it type of
photography and so it performed really
well. But now when he posted it, because
we become so used to AI generated images
and the ability to edit and modify
content with AI, when people saw it,
they likely assumed, uh, this is just an
AI photo, and they didn't engage. If
they recognized that this was created by
a human with no artificial intelligence,
it was just a camera trick, if you will.
They would have thought it was so cool
and they would have engaged like they
had the previous times he had posted it.
But now, because it would be easier to
fake, far easier than in the past, far
easier to create with AI than ever
before, people were less likely to trust
it and less likely to engage. I think
when we're talking about video content,
some of the hardest content to fake is
basically what you're watching right
now, direct to camera talking head
video. There are definitely some tools
that can create some pretty powerful
talking head with lip dub and voice
generation, but it's not fully there
yet. I would still say that that is the
toughest thing to create with AI.
Something that is kind of in between the
photo example and a talking head video
like you're watching right now would be
like B-roll content. I know that Sora
has become very popular and a lot of
people are using it to generate B-roll
or engaging video clips that don't
necessarily have talking. they don't
necessarily have, you know, a single
person speaking to the camera, but
they're using that to supplement little
moments in their content or to create
little short snippets. And so, I think
that people are going to become
generally a lot less trusting of B-roll
content. Speaking of B-roll content, a
very popular style of reel on Instagram
for really the last 3 or 4 years has
been what's called B-roll reels. It's
essentially where you take a single
short 7 to 10 second clip of yourself
doing something that relates to your
business. Maybe typing on a computer if
you are a business coach for moms who
work from home. Maybe you are stretching
if you are a yoga teacher. Basically,
you're just taking like a short little
video and then they add some sort of
sensationalized hook, some really strong
clickbait title or headline and then
they say read the caption. Well, this
style of reel has been popular, and this
is kind of like a bonus, I guess,
prediction, but I don't think those are
going to be as popular in 2026. We've
definitely seen them become far less
popular in 2025. But there is a layer on
top of these B-roll reels where a lot of
people in 2025 have created AI clones
where it's essentially they're using an
AI model to create a deep fake of
themselves, to create a twin, if you
will, an AI avatar that looks just like
them. And then they are creating these
hypothetical scenarios. They're
prompting the AI to put their AI twin
walking down the streets of Paris or
kaying down a river or whatever and then
they're doing the typical B-roll real
thing where they put some, you know,
clickbaity hook and then they say, "Read
the caption." I believe that these AI
clones are going to really fade in
popularity in 2026. One of my
predictions coming into 2025 is that
faceless marketing would go away. And
faceless marketing was basically the
same idea that I've been describing
where people take a generic B-roll clip,
they put a sensationalized hook, and
then they tell you to read the caption.
But with faceless marketing, people were
turning their back to the camera, or
they were using a stock video of someone
who wasn't them, or they were just
generally doing things to cover up their
face in the marketing. And I predicted
that that would die in 2025. and that
has significantly dropped in popularity.
But unfortunately, it's been replaced
with these AI clones. So now, instead of
using generic B-roll content or using
B-roll of themselves, but from behind,
so you can't see their face, people are
creating AI versions of themselves. And
I want to make myself clear. I have
absolutely no problem if you don't want
to show your face on camera. I think you
can grow a successful brand or business
without showing your face on camera. And
I think that you can even use AI avatars
to generate short B-roll clips and that
might be effective to spice up some of
your content. What I am not a fan of,
what I wasn't a fan of with faceless
marketing, what I am not a fan of
currently with this AI clone marketing,
and the reason that I hope these things
die out is because it's kind of become a
pyramid scheme where these AI clones or
these faceless marketers are not
actually teaching anything. They're not
actually becoming experts in their
field. They're not actually documenting
their journey. They are simply saying,
"My AI clone made me $3,000 yesterday.
Comment clone and I'll teach you how you
can do the same." And the only reason
that they're making money is because
you're commenting clone and buying their
course. And then they're able to repeat
the process. In my opinion, it's
ultimately very pyramid schemy. And I
think that the later that you adopt one
of these trends like faceless marketing
or AI clones, the less likely you are to
have success with it. And again,
everything I'm saying relates back to
the idea of indistinguishable AI
content. I do believe that in 2026, we
will see more creators taking a stand
saying that they will not use any AI
generated video or any AI generated
audio. There will be some creators who
use absolutely zero AI. And because they
make that stand, they will attract an
audience who really values that and who
really appreciates that they have zero
AI in their content. And of course,
there will be creators on the opposite
end of the spectrum who lean into AI
clones and lean into AI video and audio.
And there will be people who
specifically seek out that content. I do
think that most people generally won't
notice because like I said, it will
become indistinguishable. And I also
think most people won't care. They might
say that they don't like being tricked,
and that might be the case, but because
they don't recognize it because they're
not even aware that something was AI
generated, they don't really care if it
was funny, if it was engaging for them,
they're going to laugh and they're going
to stay engaged. With all that being
said, let's swing the pendulum in the
absolute opposite direction for
prediction number two, which is I
believe we're going to see a boom in IRL
events or in real life events. I believe
that in-person events are going to make
a major comeback in 2026. In 2025, and
even the tail end of 2024, we've already
seen that there are a lot more in-person
events happening. And I don't mean
inerson events like VidCon or the Many
Chat IRL Summit. I think those things
are awesome. I love public speaking when
there are thousands of people there. But
I think that small niche communities,
in-person events with 10 local creators,
masterminds, and just in general more
people meeting up in person, offline. I
believe that whether it's because of the
isolation caused by the pandemic, the
growing number of people who are working
for themselves or working from home. I
think that a lot of us are just craving
connection. We're craving community and
we're recognizing more and more that
while you can connect with people online
and you can build online communities, it
just doesn't compare to in-person
events. I know that personally I have
done more than four times the number of
speaking events in 2025 than 2024. And
you might say, well Brock, maybe it's
just because you've gotten more popular,
you got more followers or whatever. But
2024 and 2023 were significantly less
than even 2022. And so it's been really
cool to see over the course of 2025, how
many more companies, how many more
events, how many more organizations have
been having these in-person events, big
or small. And from talking to so many
people there, that's what they want.
They want more of this in 2026. From
talking to the organizers of these
events, they're planning more events or
bigger events in 2026. And so if you're
someone who feels lonely working from
home or you crave community or
connection, go on some local Facebook
groups. do some online searching. Look
on Reddit. Find communities in your
local area. I know we have a local
marketing club here in Park City, Utah,
uh which is where I live, and they do
almost weekly in-person meetings where
sometimes they'll have a speaker come in
and train. Sometimes it's just for
networking or connecting with other
people in the community. But I firmly
believe that networking and in-person
events are going to make a big comeback
in 2026. Prediction number three for
social media in 2026 is that no niche,
no problem. And I can't believe I'm
saying this, so I need you to stick
around with me for just a second. For
the last 10 years or so, myself and
pretty much every other social media
strategist out there has preached about
the importance of niche. Niche, niche,
niche, niche down. The riches are in the
niches. You've been hearing it
everywhere. I don't think there's a
social media training in the history of
the world that doesn't mention the word
niche. But in 2026, I think we might see
the death of the niche. Again, let me
explain. Over the course of 2024 and
2025, we have seen the Tik Tokification
of social media. And essentially what
that means is that every social network
has tried their best to copy Tik Tok's
algorithm. And they have done this
because Tik Tok boomed in popularity in
2020. And if you think about the history
of all the different social media
networks that have risen and fallen,
that have come and gone, Tik Tok is one
of the few that has risen in popularity
and stayed that popular. It burst onto
the scene and it has stuck. And
according to many reports, people spend
more time on Tik Tok every day than any
other platform. And the reason for this
is that Tik Tok's algorithm
fundamentally works different than every
other platform. Tik Tok's algorithm
says, "We don't really care who follows
you. If you make good content, more
people will see it." Similarly, from the
perspective of the consumer, we don't
really care who you follow. We care what
your interest is. Basically, they're
looking at what you are most likely to
be interested in this moment, in this
hour, in this minute, rather than what
you were interested in 3 years ago when
you decided to follow X, Y, and Z
accounts. So, with that being said,
basically every social media has
deprioritized the value of a follower.
The head of Instagram himself is on the
record of saying that follower counts
matter less than view and like counts.
He's also on the record of saying that
likes, shares, and watch time are the
greatest predictor of whether or not
your content will get reach and get
views, not necessarily if someone
follows you or not. Similarly, here on
YouTube, subscribing is a great way to
tell YouTube, hey, I want to see this
person's posts in the future. But just
because you subscribe to someone
definitely does not guarantee that
you're going to be shown their videos in
the future. So, basically, in the past,
if you wanted to have success on social
media, it was all about niching down.
You had to pick one singular topic and
really hyperfocus on that topic and then
Instagram would serve up your content to
people who were interested in said
topic. Those people would follow you and
then they would keep coming back for
more. They followed you because you do
pizza reviews. And so if you keep doing
pizza reviews, Instagram will keep
showing them your content. You'll keep
getting views, engagement, and you'll
keep getting more followers. But now
because of the Tik Tokification, having
a niche has never been less important
for views. That is the big distinction
that I need you to understand. If you
want followers, followers, in my
opinion, are still going to come from
having one singular primary niche on
your Instagram account. But if you just
want views, if you want virality, if you
want reach, if you want to get your
content, get your product in front of
more people, you don't necessarily need
to stick to one kind of post. To say it
as simply as I possibly can, if you want
more followers, stick to one niche. If
you just want more views and engagement,
you don't have to stick to a niche
anymore. The reason that having a clear
niche or a clear primary topic for your
content is still going to be important
in 2026 for gaining followers is because
that's still human nature. That's still
what we look for. If we see a great
video, a great pizza review, and we
click on your profile and there's no
other pizza reviews, but that's what
we're into. We're into pizza content,
well then we're not going to follow you.
Of course, if the opposite is true, if
we click on your profile and there are
tons of other pizza reviews and that's
what we want to see more of, then we are
more likely to follow you. And I want to
make sure we're clear that followers
aren't totally worthless. Having a
follower, having a subscriber does still
increase the likelihood that that person
sees your post, but it just isn't
weighted as heavily as it used to.
Prediction number four for social media
in 2026 is that challenges and series
are going to be everywhere. For example,
personal challenges like this one guy
who I follow on Instagram who was
challenging himself to do 1 million
push-ups. And he did it over the course
of like nine years. And now he's
challenged himself to do 1 million
pull-ups. And he's invited all of social
media to follow along with his journey
as he documents how many pull-ups or
push-ups he's doing each and every day.
Another example of personal challenges
that I've seen having a lot of success
on both Instagram and Tik Tok is people
doing certain things based off of their
screen time or their social media time
from the day before. I saw one guy who's
doing a challenge that is stroll through
what you scroll through. Really catchy
name. So basically, however many hours
he scrolled the day before, that's how
many hours he's going to stroll or walk
the next day. I saw another person whose
goal was to do something creative for as
many minutes as they spent on their
phone the day before. So, if they spent
an hour and 43 minutes on their phone,
the next day they would spend an hour
and 43 minutes writing a song or
painting or journaling. Another example
is follow-based challenges. Gage is a
guy who I've posted about on my
Instagram before who is running one mile
for every follower that he gains. Now,
he's gained millions of followers across
YouTube, Instagram, and Tik Tok. And so,
he's doing his best. He's running about
four miles a day. He's lost a ton of
weight, like I think almost 100 pounds,
which is so flipping awesome. I'll link
him up down in the show notes below. But
again, it's an example where you are
kind of gamifying the follow. You're
encouraging people to follow not just
because they're interested in your
journey, but so they can literally
partake in your journey because their
follow is worth something. Their follow,
in Gage's case, is equivalent to one
additional mile that he has to run. And
the final example that I have for you is
group challenges where multiple people
are going to plan out. Maybe they're
going to get together and set the world
record for the most people jump roping
in a park at one time. Or there's going
to be a group of people who are going to
digitally plan to all do the same thing
on the same day. I've started to see
this style of content really pick up
steam towards the end of 2025. And I
think that it's really going to grow in
popularity and boom in 2026. So, I want
you to pause right now and think, what
sort of challenge could I do for myself
based off my niche? If you're a recipe
creator, then maybe your challenge is
going to be making one recipe every
single day that's recommended by your
followers. Or maybe let's say you are a
relationship therapist and for every
follower that you gain, you are going to
kiss your wife for 1 second the next
day. So if you gain 72 followers, then
the next day you have to kiss your wife
for a minute and 12 seconds. I saw a guy
who was doing a similar version of this.
He was dancing 1 second for every
follower that he gained. And some of the
days he was gaining thousands of
followers, which meant that he was
dancing for quite a while. Social media
prediction number five is specific to
Instagram and I think we're going to see
some big changes to the Instagram
profile. In 2025, we saw some major
changes take place to the entire layout
of Instagram as a whole with the
reorganization of where the buttons are,
specifically in the bottom menu. But I
believe that in 2026, we're going to see
some major layout changes and hopefully
simplifications to the Instagram
profile. One thing that I think is going
to happen is there's going to be a
change with the highlights. I don't know
if highlights are going to be totally
taken away. My guess is that they might
be moved to a new tab in the profile
similar to how you have the main home
feed, the reals tab, the tagged tab, the
repost tab. I could see them giving us a
specific tab for your highlights. I
could also just see them, like I said,
totally getting rid of highlights
because the reality is most people are
not watching highlights. Most highlights
get very little views once they're
actually made into a highlight with rare
exceptions. And so I know some people
absolutely love them, but as a whole, I
think most people just don't really use
or think about Instagram story
highlights. Additionally, another major
change that could take place on the
Instagram profile is one that they've
already been testing and working on, and
that's replacing the number of people
you follow with a new category called
friends. And friends, by Instagram's
definition, is basically mutuals. People
who you follow and they follow you back.
So, even though you might follow 4,000
people, you might only have 800 friends,
again, 800 people who you follow and
they also follow you back. And like I
mentioned, Instagram has been testing
making this change. And so, I could see
that take place and actually be
implemented as a permanent change in
2026. Prediction number six also relates
to Instagram, and it's as much of a
recommendation as it is a prediction,
and that is that we're going to see more
carousels on Instagram in 2026. The
recommendation, post more carousels on
your Instagram. According to a metricool
study that came out at the end of 2025,
carousels are getting more engagement
and more reach to your followers than
reals. And we're not talking like
minuscule amounts. We're seeing
significantly more reach to followers
and significantly higher engagement on
carousels regardless of how many
followers you have. And I believe the
reason for this is that so many people
went allin on reels and they learned
reels. They learned how to make reels
more efficiently. They learned the whole
B-roll reel thing. And so they're just
pumping out reels. And carousels feel
really daunting. Carousels feel really
stale. People feel like, "Oh, it's going
to take so much time. It's going to be
so boring. It's going to be so
cumbersome to create carousels when in
many cases carousels can actually be
quicker and easier than reals." I
recently posted two YouTube videos with
carousel ideas. Each of them has eight
viral carousel ideas and I walk you
through how to create each of them
quickly and easily. And so I believe
that in 2026 we're going to see a
resurgence of carousels. I hope that
there's going to be more people posting
more carousels because I know I often
times enjoy swiping through a carousel
more than watching a real. And so
definitely check out those previous
episodes that I already uploaded. And if
nothing else, just start experimenting
with carousels in the new year.
Prediction number seven is that we're
going to see a really exacerbated
growing divide between the best content
creators on social media and everyone
else. Now, I did an entire episode about
this a few weeks ago where I broke down
how social media has changed. And I
essentially made the argument that while
the playing field is more level than
it's ever been, it's also more crowded
than it's ever been. Competition is at
an all-time high. And now you and your
reels are expected to compete with
people who are literal Hollywood
cinematographers. People who work on
music videos and Hollywood films are now
making reels and your reels are expected
to compete with them. And most people
are trying to compete with these
professional editors and they're trying
to, you know, add a little transition
here and add a little effect there and
do a little bit of editing there and
they're trying to sprinkle these little
things on when in reality adding a
couple more dashes of salt to your
recipe is not going to make you Gordon
Ramsay. And so the thesis of my argument
in that video was to embrace the raw
authentic imperfect content to stop
trying to use little gimmicky editing
techniques unless you want to go allin.
If you want to go allin to be a
professional editor, you want to make
cinematic content. I saw one of my
friends recently who is a professional
content creator who is a cinematic style
creator. He was literally having his
friends film him from the top of
buildings in New York City zooming in as
he's down on the street for his hook.
Like unless you want to go to that
level, go to the opposite end of the
spectrum. Go to the end of the spectrum
where you embrace the FaceTime content,
where you embrace no editing, no filter,
no makeup, where you're just talking
offthe cuff without a script or without
any gimmicks. And something that is so
funny that I hear from pretty much every
creator and business owner is this kind
of contradiction. And it's on one hand,
they're tired of the perfect overedited
fake content that they're seeing. The
content that looks so polished and so
refined that it could be a Hollywood
film. And yet on the other hand, at the
exact same time, they think that their
content needs to be prettier. They think
that their content needs to be more
polished and more refined and more ed.
And I simply believe that trying to find
the perfect level of eding is
impossible. There's no such thing as a
perfect amount of eding. And so you end
up either overediting, overpolishing in
an attempt to be professional or
cinematic, or you just end up with these
like gimmicky little edits and like
smoke transitions and like laser
lightning bolts and really obnoxious
closed captions. So again, my prediction
and kind of my hope for 2026 is that
more people are going to embrace raw,
real, imperfect content and they're
going to stop fretting and spending so
much time, energy, and effort editing
their content, especially with the
gimmicky style editing. And this
directly segus me into my eighth and
final prediction, which is specific to
Instagram. I believe we're going to see
the rise of FaceTime content on
Instagram. FaceTime content has become
the norm. It has become what is popular
over on TikTok. And when I say FaceTime
content, I mean the kind of content
where you feel like you're a friend
being FaceTimed by another friend.
People are yapping. They're more long-
winded. They're telling stories. They're
not using over-the-top hooks like, "If
you want to grow on Instagram, here are
three things you need to stop doing. If
you want to become a better baker, watch
till the end of this video." They're not
doing that on Tik Tok. They're just
talking the way we talk to our friends.
And the Tik Tok algorithm has really
catered to this style of content. It has
rewarded people who have a long watch
time and who can get people hooked in to
actually sticking around for the entire
video. Tik Tok rewards people that post
content longer than 1 minute. Instagram,
however, this hasn't been the case.
Instead, Instagram's algorithm
prioritizes interactions more than just
watch time or view duration. So, while
Instagram definitely does want people to
watch your whole video, and they care
how long you're hooking people in for,
they wait likes and shares and comments
a lot more heavily. I believe that in
2026, the Instagram algorithm is going
to evolve to prioritize content that is
a little bit longer. I believe it's
going to weight things like watch time
and view duration more heavily than it
has in the past. This doesn't mean that
engagement isn't going to matter. This
doesn't mean that interactions are going
to be worthless. This doesn't mean that
likes and shares are no longer the top
dog. It simply means that making a
longer video that people watch for
longer is going to be more valuable than
it has been in the past. And like I
said, I believe that the way that this
is going to be achieved is not through
posting really professional, polished 3
minute long reels. I believe it's going
to be achieved through FaceTime content,
through yapping, through storytelling,
through sharing authentically what
you're going through, your challenges,
your triumphs, your ideas, your
struggles, talking about those things,
and really focusing on documentation
rather than creation. I want to hear
from you, though. This is your turn. Let
me know down in the comments below this
episode. Am I off my rocker? Am I
absolutely wrong? Do you agree? Do you
disagree? What predictions do you have?
What predictions of mine do you disagree
with? What predictions of mine do you
think are absolutely going to take
place? Let me know down in the comments.
And if you have absolutely nothing to
say, drop a like. Just press that little
thumbs up button and it will help this
video reach more people and it will help
me continue to grow the channel. It
doesn't quite look like we're going to
hit 100K subscribers in 2025, but I
guess my ninth and final prediction for
2026 is that I will hit 100,000
subscribers on YouTube. And that is
pretty much entirely thanks to you. So,
thank you for continuing to support me
and this channel. We have some big plans
for 2026. Thank you for being here. And
as always, happy networking.